# Capstone_Project_2
PROJECT TITLE: Predicting Movie Rating and Building a Recommender System

PROBLEM STATEMENT
During the last few decades, with the rise of Youtube, Amazon, Netflix and many other such web services, recommender systems have taken more and more place in our lives. From e-commerce to online advertisement recommender systems are today unavoidable in our daily online journeys. In a very general way, recommender systems are algorithms aimed at suggesting relevant items to users (items being movies to watch, text to read, products to buy or anything else depending on industries).
Recommender systems are critical in some industries as they can generate a huge amount of income when they are efficient or also be a way to stand out significantly from competitors. One of these sectors is movie industry. We will use movie dataset so the client of our project could be movie products sellers such as Amazon, Netflix, Hulu and movie production companies. 
The first goal of this project is understanding the important features of movie sector and predicting a movie rate. The second goal of this project is building a recommender system to provide recommendations for different users. 

DATA DESCRIPTION
For this project, I will use two datasets of movies from Kaggle. One of them contains various details about movies for our analysis. It consists of two different files as movies and credits. The data can be reached from the following link, https://www.kaggle.com/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata. There are 4803 movie entries. 
The first dataset ‘credits’ contains the following features:
	movie_id - a unique identifier for each movie
	title - the title of the movie
	cast - the name of lead and supporting actors
	crew - the name of director, editor, composer, writer etc.
The second dataset ‘movies’ has the following features:
	budget - The budget in which the movie was made.
	genre - The genre of the movie, action, comedy, thriller etc.
	homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.
	id - This is infact the movie_id as in the first dataset.
	keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
	original_language - The language in which the movie was made.
	original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
	overview - A brief description of the movie.
	popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
	production_companies - The production house of the movie.
	production_countries - The country in which it was produced.
	release_date - The date on which it was released.
	revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
	runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
	spoken_languages - The languages spoken in the movie.
	status - "Released" or "Rumored".
	tagline - Movie's tagline.
	title - Title of the movie.
	vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved.
	vote_count - the count of votes recieved.
The second dataset from Kaggle is about users. It can be reached from the following link. https://www.kaggle.com/rounakbanik/undefined#ratings_small.csv. The user id in this data set is important for collaborative filtering. The user is recommended items that people with similar tastes and preferences liked in the past. The features of this data set are:
	userId - a unique identifier for each user
	movieId - a unique identifier for each movie
	rating – the rating users gave.
	timestamp – the time of given rating.
